Hello and welcome everyone to this week's stellar developer meeting.
week's stellar developer meeting. today in the studio I have Vivo from
today in the studio I have Vivo from Halaps and he's going to give a super
Halaps and he's going to give a super exciting demo of the pro current
exciting demo of the pro current progress of the scaffold stellar. So
progress of the scaffold stellar. So please introduce yourself and yeah give
please introduce yourself and yeah give us a little bit of just a small
us a little bit of just a small introduction to what is scaffold stella
introduction to what is scaffold stella to those who have not played around
to those who have not played around with it yet or haven't heard a lot about
with it yet or haven't heard a lot about it. So yeah
it. So yeah >> awesome. Yeah thanks so much Carson. So
>> awesome. Yeah thanks so much Carson. So hey guys I'm Fifo I'm work at a labs.
hey guys I'm Fifo I'm work at a labs. I'm a principal engineer there and I'll
I'm a principal engineer there and I'll be presenting the scaffold stellar.
be presenting the scaffold stellar. for those that don't know about it, it's
for those that don't know about it, it's basically it it includes a CLI and a
basically it it includes a CLI and a base project in which you can start
base project in which you can start developing on stellar and sorban in a
developing on stellar and sorban in a very easy way. You can think of it as an
very easy way. You can think of it as an all-in-one repo and a lot of very
all-in-one repo and a lot of very helpful tooling around it for you to to
helpful tooling around it for you to to build your contracts, deploy, test it,
build your contracts, deploy, test it, have your own environment configuring
have your own environment configuring the way they best suit your application
the way they best suit your application and really move fast at these initial
and really move fast at these initial process and the whole the whole
process and the whole the whole development cycle. So, I'm very excited
development cycle. So, I'm very excited to share this with you guys.
to share this with you guys. >> Yeah. And when when I heard about the
>> Yeah. And when when I heard about the project for the first time, I thought
project for the first time, I thought this is a great way if you're new to
this is a great way if you're new to Stellar, great way to get started. It
Stellar, great way to get started. It has a lot of cool plugins. But as as I
has a lot of cool plugins. But as as I dig deeper into it, even as a more
dig deeper into it, even as a more experienced developer, I actually see a
experienced developer, I actually see a lot of benefits from from using this to
lot of benefits from from using this to kind of bootstrap my my application if I
kind of bootstrap my my application if I want to try something new or build
want to try something new or build something where I don't want to spend a
something where I don't want to spend a lot of time on setting up my environment
lot of time on setting up my environment and do do basic stuff. So this
and do do basic stuff. So this especially I think some of the open
especially I think some of the open sllin integrations are super exciting as
sllin integrations are super exciting as well. So so I the more I look into it
well. So so I the more I look into it the more I think this this is not only
the more I think this this is not only cool for new developers actually also
cool for new developers actually also more experienced developers who just
more experienced developers who just want to get going and build something
want to get going and build something without spending a lot of time on on
without spending a lot of time on on setting up their environment.
setting up their environment. >> Exactly. I I think you said it all and
>> Exactly. I I think you said it all and it's what I think it's great about it is
it's what I think it's great about it is that it helps not just new developers
that it helps not just new developers that are coming to the ecosystem and
that are coming to the ecosystem and don't really know Stellar that well. So
don't really know Stellar that well. So they might have like those common
they might have like those common initial hurdles when starting projects
initial hurdles when starting projects and and start playing around but it also
and and start playing around but it also helps like seasoned developers that know
helps like seasoned developers that know the ecosystem because you can really
the ecosystem because you can really customize stuff around to make like work
customize stuff around to make like work in the way you feel more comfortable and
in the way you feel more comfortable and can really move fast and try things
can really move fast and try things really fast. So I I love it. I've been
really fast. So I I love it. I've been working ser for for for some time and
working ser for for for some time and I've missed this kind of tool in the
I've missed this kind of tool in the past.
past. >> Yeah. And that's that's one of the
>> Yeah. And that's that's one of the things that I really like about it
things that I really like about it because all of you guys who are working
because all of you guys who are working on this building this you're very you're
on this building this you're very you're very experienced on on the Stella
very experienced on on the Stella platform and and you make things very
platform and and you make things very customizable customizable so you can set
customizable customizable so you can set it up and you can customize your
it up and you can customize your settings your features what you want to
settings your features what you want to include. So so it's it's nice to see
include. So so it's it's nice to see that more experienced developer approach
that more experienced developer approach to it as well. but you don't have to
to it as well. but you don't have to set up a lot of stuff if you just want
set up a lot of stuff if you just want to get started and want to play with it
to get started and want to play with it out of the box. But but let's
out of the box. But but let's let's get into it and and and see what
let's get into it and and and see what what you guys have been working on.
what you guys have been working on. >> Awesome. Awesome. Just double checking.
>> Awesome. Awesome. Just double checking. Can you guys see my screen? Is
Can you guys see my screen? Is everything okay?
everything okay? >> Awesome. So sometime people's
>> Awesome. So sometime people's complain that my my monitor has like big
complain that my my monitor has like big resolutions. If things are too small,
resolutions. If things are too small, just let me know. I can I can increase
just let me know. I can I can increase it a little further. So I'll just start
it a little further. So I'll just start with with the basic. Here you're seeing
with with the basic. Here you're seeing the the link to Stellar CLI and I'll
the the link to Stellar CLI and I'll take these steps back and start from the
take these steps back and start from the very beginning. So if you're a new
very beginning. So if you're a new developer coming to the ecosystem not
developer coming to the ecosystem not sure if you heard it up it already but
sure if you heard it up it already but Stellar CLI it's a great tool everyone
Stellar CLI it's a great tool everyone should have it and it's the the starting
should have it and it's the the starting point for what we're doing here. So I
point for what we're doing here. So I recommend you go here to to Stellar
recommend you go here to to Stellar Stellar CLI get the CLI installed and
Stellar CLI get the CLI installed and we'll start with it. So Stellar CLI has
we'll start with it. So Stellar CLI has a lot of very very exciting features.
a lot of very very exciting features. You can manage accounts. You can spin up
You can manage accounts. You can spin up your own container with a local network.
your own container with a local network. You can do a bunch of of really cool
You can do a bunch of of really cool stuff. But the nice thing that just came
stuff. But the nice thing that just came in recently and a lot of people might
in recently and a lot of people might not have realized in in in past
not have realized in in in past releases is that now we have plugins for
releases is that now we have plugins for the CLI. So if you have the CLI
the CLI. So if you have the CLI installed and you just go ahead and hit
installed and you just go ahead and hit stellar stellar space plugin and
stellar stellar space plugin and let's call search, you'll be able to
let's call search, you'll be able to search for plugins that are are
search for plugins that are are published in the ecosystem and that can
published in the ecosystem and that can be installed on the CLI. So the idea
be installed on the CLI. So the idea behind that is that different projects
behind that is that different projects might have specific needs or might look
might have specific needs or might look for more personalized tooling for what
for more personalized tooling for what they're building and this way you can
they're building and this way you can really customize your experience around
really customize your experience around it. So what we're seeing here is
it. So what we're seeing here is basically it went through repositories
basically it went through repositories that have a specific tag it looks for. I
that have a specific tag it looks for. I mean these were
mean these were >> zoom in a little bit. It's it's a little
>> zoom in a little bit. It's it's a little bit hard to see.
bit hard to see. >> Yes, absolutely. Yeah. Is it better like
>> Yes, absolutely. Yeah. Is it better like that? Like that it's huge my screen.
that? Like that it's huge my screen. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's now it's
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's now it's really good. It's very easy to see.
really good. It's very easy to see. >> Awesome. Awesome. So basically it just
>> Awesome. Awesome. So basically it just found for hits and it's looking on
found for hits and it's looking on GitHub for a specific tag to indicate
GitHub for a specific tag to indicate this is a plug-in for the CLI and we can
this is a plug-in for the CLI and we can see a bunch of interesting stuff
see a bunch of interesting stuff already. So there is the scaffold
already. So there is the scaffold stellar it's in a repository called a
stellar it's in a repository called a lababscaffold stellar there's also you
lababscaffold stellar there's also you can see the contract bindings there is
can see the contract bindings there is the open zeppelink upgrader so the cla
the open zeppelink upgrader so the cla for for contracts and we should be
for for contracts and we should be seeing a lot of a lot more exciting
seeing a lot of a lot more exciting stuff coming next so for this demo
stuff coming next so for this demo we'll go with the scaffold stellar I
we'll go with the scaffold stellar I already have it installed I'll just open
already have it installed I'll just open the repo here you can access github
the repo here you can access github and iabscaffoldstellar
and iabscaffoldstellar and you can go through the instructions
and you can go through the instructions here to It's very simple. Just cargo
here to It's very simple. Just cargo install and you have the CLI. I already
install and you have the CLI. I already have it here. So, it's probably just
have it here. So, it's probably just Yeah, there you go. I have P V P V P V P
Yeah, there you go. I have P V P V P V P V P V P V P V P V P V P V 005. we
V P V P V P V P V P V P V 005. we also have the registry which is
also have the registry which is something really exciting but I won't be
something really exciting but I won't be focusing too much on this on this on
focusing too much on this on this on this demo in function of time. So, I
this demo in function of time. So, I think we can have subsequent sessions
think we can have subsequent sessions just to go deeper into some of the
just to go deeper into some of the features that won't be here. I'll try to
features that won't be here. I'll try to focus more on initializing the the
focus more on initializing the the project and and playing around with it.
project and and playing around with it. So, I have it installed. Once you have
So, I have it installed. Once you have the plug-in installed, you can access
the plug-in installed, you can access those through the stellar CLA directly.
those through the stellar CLA directly. So I'll go with stellar scaffold. Just
So I'll go with stellar scaffold. Just hit h to see the help and you get a
hit h to see the help and you get a bunch of new commands with the this
bunch of new commands with the this plug-in. So in it will allows you allow
plug-in. So in it will allows you allow you to start a new project from scratch
you to start a new project from scratch and it comes with this pretty exciting
and it comes with this pretty exciting model repo that you can manage your
model repo that you can manage your contracts. You can build the contracts,
contracts. You can build the contracts, generate the clients, have you have a
generate the clients, have you have a front end that's ready to interact and
front end that's ready to interact and integrate with these clients. So it's
integrate with these clients. So it's really neat. You have a build a build
really neat. You have a build a build function that not just builds the
function that not just builds the contract but also runs certain routines
contract but also runs certain routines that I'll be showing afterwards that are
that I'll be showing afterwards that are associated with the configuration you
associated with the configuration you have in your environment. You have also
have in your environment. You have also the generate command which allows you to
the generate command which allows you to generate new contracts. So these
generate new contracts. So these allow you to go through through the
allow you to go through through the open Zeppelink examples and it can send
open Zeppelink examples and it can send you to the to the open Zeppelin wizard
you to the to the open Zeppelin wizard and there's a bunch of new stuff coming
and there's a bunch of new stuff coming in the future as well. you can
in the future as well. you can upgrade existing repositories for the
upgrade existing repositories for the scaffold turning into your your
scaffold turning into your your workspace into a scaffold project.
workspace into a scaffold project. there's the update just to update your
there's the update just to update your environments in in your in your working
environments in in your in your working space and also watch which I'll be
space and also watch which I'll be using a lot in this demo that builds
using a lot in this demo that builds everything and keep watching for changes
everything and keep watching for changes on both sides. So both the contracts and
on both sides. So both the contracts and also the front end. So for this let's go
also the front end. So for this let's go ahead and and start new project. I'll
ahead and and start new project. I'll just go with stellar scaffold in it
just go with stellar scaffold in it and let's call it demo 10. I think I
and let's call it demo 10. I think I have a bunch of demos already in this
have a bunch of demos already in this folder because I was playing with this
folder because I was playing with this throughout these past few days. Let's
throughout these past few days. Let's just see. Yes, cd. I'll just open this
just see. Yes, cd. I'll just open this new project. And you can see here that
new project. And you can see here that it downloaded the repository from
it downloaded the repository from scaffold stellar front end. So if you
scaffold stellar front end. So if you want to have a look at these or even
want to have a look at these or even submit PRs if you find anything to
submit PRs if you find anything to improve feel free to do that. So I'll go
improve feel free to do that. So I'll go ahead and see the demo. I'm in the in
ahead and see the demo. I'm in the in the folder and let me open it with VS
the folder and let me open it with VS Code. So there's my VS Code. Let me just
Code. So there's my VS Code. Let me just position it here and really increase
position it here and really increase this so you guys can see what's going
this so you guys can see what's going on. So all right, starting in this new
on. So all right, starting in this new repo. What do I have in here? What where
repo. What do I have in here? What where is this structure? What am I seeing in
is this structure? What am I seeing in this? So just a quick walk through what
this? So just a quick walk through what you're seeing here on top you have a
you're seeing here on top you have a folder for contracts and this is
folder for contracts and this is basically where your contracts are going
basically where your contracts are going to live. They are following this format
to live. They are following this format in which you have a directory for each f
in which you have a directory for each f for each contract you have the cargo
for each contract you have the cargo tommo source and out of the bat you can
tommo source and out of the bat you can see we have three examples. this is
see we have three examples. this is something that as is in this current
something that as is in this current format and also it's important to bring
format and also it's important to bring the disclaimer that everything here is a
the disclaimer that everything here is a work in progress. This is very recent.
work in progress. This is very recent. So if you see any bugs or anything that
So if you see any bugs or anything that we could be improved, feel free to to to
we could be improved, feel free to to to share your feedback. We appreciate and
share your feedback. We appreciate and there's definitely a lot of stuff that
there's definitely a lot of stuff that will be iterating and improving over the
will be iterating and improving over the the new releases, the following
the new releases, the following releases. So you see under contracts
releases. So you see under contracts here, I have a funible token from the
here, I have a funible token from the demos. I have a hello world example and
demos. I have a hello world example and I have the NFT innumerable which is also
I have the NFT innumerable which is also different example of contract. So
different example of contract. So contracts is where your rust code
contracts is where your rust code exists. This is all a big workspace and
exists. This is all a big workspace and you can see the the source code
you can see the the source code directly. If you scroll a little bit,
directly. If you scroll a little bit, you see packages. Right now, this is
you see packages. Right now, this is empty. So where is this packages folder?
empty. So where is this packages folder? The idea is that as I'm building these
The idea is that as I'm building these contracts, we are automatically
contracts, we are automatically going through our configuration and
going through our configuration and deploying these contracts and generating
deploying these contracts and generating the TypeScript binds. So we are creating
the TypeScript binds. So we are creating clients for these in Typescript and
clients for these in Typescript and putting those in this folder. So all the
putting those in this folder. So all the clients that are generated for the
clients that are generated for the contracts will come to the package
contracts will come to the package folder and that's where they're going to
folder and that's where they're going to be accessed from. So if I go down below
be accessed from. So if I go down below you'll see that we also have a front end
you'll see that we also have a front end here. So this is a this is a ReactJS
here. So this is a this is a ReactJS with TypeScript and D and here in this
with TypeScript and D and here in this front end basically it is a a very
front end basically it is a a very bare bones and simple front end to start
bare bones and simple front end to start playing with your contract. But it also
playing with your contract. But it also includes some some interesting thing the
includes some some interesting thing the bat. You're going to see it has some
bat. You're going to see it has some providers and some hooks that you can
providers and some hooks that you can use in your application and you can see
use in your application and you can see the actual implementation we have in
the actual implementation we have in place to play around with those. you
place to play around with those. you also have the contracts folder which for
also have the contracts folder which for now it's empty but as soon as I start
now it's empty but as soon as I start building the the contracts you see it's
building the the contracts you see it's being populated with the clients for
being populated with the clients for each contract and you have the debug
each contract and you have the debug folder which is this interesting
folder which is this interesting contract explorer that is very similar
contract explorer that is very similar to what we have in stellar lab and I'll
to what we have in stellar lab and I'll get into more details in a second. So
get into more details in a second. So for now it's bare bones. We don't have
for now it's bare bones. We don't have anything. So what can we do? What can we
anything. So what can we do? What can we start doing with this? the first
start doing with this? the first step, let me go ahead and just open the
step, let me go ahead and just open the rhymi here. And it suggests us to start
rhymi here. And it suggests us to start with this copying the amp. So I'll just
with this copying the amp. So I'll just copy the example end. Now we have the
copy the example end. Now we have the end. And this is basically telling us
end. And this is basically telling us which environment are we using. This is
which environment are we using. This is where our front end is going to look
where our front end is going to look when connecting to our RPC and to our
when connecting to our RPC and to our horizon. Oh, and I didn't mention what I
horizon. Oh, and I didn't mention what I actually Let me just show here because
actually Let me just show here because I'm so used to have this up and running.
I'm so used to have this up and running. I'm already running my local image of
I'm already running my local image of the the the quick start. So if you never
the the the quick start. So if you never heard of it, if you don't you don't know
heard of it, if you don't you don't know what it is, basically in the stellar
what it is, basically in the stellar CLI, you have a container. You can run
CLI, you have a container. You can run stellar container start and you start
stellar container start and you start this container locally, a docker
this container locally, a docker container with an image that has all
container with an image that has all that you need to run stellar locally. So
that you need to run stellar locally. So you have your own node running locally
you have your own node running locally from scratch pream pristine node
from scratch pream pristine node history. You have your own RPC. You have
history. You have your own RPC. You have your own horizon. You you have your
your own horizon. You you have your friend bot. So it's really handy.
friend bot. So it's really handy. right now I'll be using it to connect
right now I'll be using it to connect and deploying everything locally in my
and deploying everything locally in my environment. And just an example I
environment. And just an example I was showing the the the commands from
was showing the the the commands from the from the scaffold CLI. So I'll just
the from the scaffold CLI. So I'll just to show you these relationship between
to show you these relationship between contracts and packages. I'll go ahead
contracts and packages. I'll go ahead and just run a build so you can see how
and just run a build so you can see how it does. basically if I access
it does. basically if I access stellar
stellar scaffold
scaffold build let me just do the the help so
build let me just do the the help so you can see all the options. So
you can see all the options. So basically you can build for a specific
basically you can build for a specific amp and it's going to look for this
amp and it's going to look for this stellar scaffold and which points to
stellar scaffold and which points to which environment you are building your
which environment you are building your contracts. I have mine already set
contracts. I have mine already set here to development. So you can build
here to development. So you can build your contracts for for different
your contracts for for different environments. And what these are doing
environments. And what these are doing is that they are also looking into this
is that they are also looking into this file over here. This environment to this
file over here. This environment to this is very important for this scaffold
is very important for this scaffold project because this defines how you're
project because this defines how you're handling this environment. So I I
handling this environment. So I I suggest you all have a look and play
suggest you all have a look and play around. There's a ton of comments here
around. There's a ton of comments here to guide you through this configuration.
to guide you through this configuration. But in short summary, what you're seeing
But in short summary, what you're seeing is you have three main environments. You
is you have three main environments. You see here we have a development
see here we have a development environment with the configuration for
environment with the configuration for the RPC that we'll be using the
the RPC that we'll be using the passphrase setting up to run
passphrase setting up to run automatically. So when this flag is set
automatically. So when this flag is set for example and I'm running npm rundev,
for example and I'm running npm rundev, it's going to automatically start the
it's going to automatically start the container for me. So I don't have to do
container for me. So I don't have to do that or in case I forget. I do this all
that or in case I forget. I do this all the time whenever I'm working on my
the time whenever I'm working on my projects. you also have some other
projects. you also have some other configuration around the accounts. So
configuration around the accounts. So this is also very neat. I'll get to into
this is also very neat. I'll get to into more details but important things here
more details but important things here is that you also have other
is that you also have other environments. You have the staging
environments. You have the staging environment. You have the production
environment. You have the production environment. So normally you would have
environment. So normally you would have development pointing to local. You would
development pointing to local. You would have staging pointing to test net or
have staging pointing to test net or future net. And then you'd have
future net. And then you'd have production pointing to mainet. So I
production pointing to mainet. So I won't make any changes right now just to
won't make any changes right now just to show you guys. If I run the command to
show you guys. If I run the command to scaff stellar scaffold build with the
scaff stellar scaffold build with the flag build clients.
flag build clients. there you go. It's it's starting
there you go. It's it's starting to run. You see that it's doing a lot of
to run. You see that it's doing a lot of stuff. Let me just break it down for
stuff. Let me just break it down for you. So basically what it's going
you. So basically what it's going through it's going through all my
through it's going through all my contracts building each one of those. As
contracts building each one of those. As they're building the contracts they're
they're building the contracts they're also looking at these environments to
also looking at these environments to see what I have set up here. So
see what I have set up here. So important pieces. So first thing you'll
important pieces. So first thing you'll notice you have this development.ac
notice you have this development.ac accounts which defines which accounts
accounts which defines which accounts are going to be used and by default you
are going to be used and by default you have this with an account called me and
have this with an account called me and the full true. What does that mean? That
the full true. What does that mean? That means that if you're familiar with the
means that if you're familiar with the stellar CLI you have the stellar keys
stellar CLI you have the stellar keys which allow you to if I just hit ls here
which allow you to if I just hit ls here I can you can see the keys I have. It
I can you can see the keys I have. It allow you to manage key pairs directly
allow you to manage key pairs directly from the CLI. So you can create new key
from the CLI. So you can create new key pairs, you can initialize these accounts
pairs, you can initialize these accounts and you can use these accounts to run
and you can use these accounts to run transactions directly through the CLI.
transactions directly through the CLI. So the nice thing here is that as you
So the nice thing here is that as you set these accounts here automatically
set these accounts here automatically doing the build, it's going to identify
doing the build, it's going to identify if I have an account called me or not.
if I have an account called me or not. And in case I don't, it's going to
And in case I don't, it's going to create this account and initialize it
create this account and initialize it for me. And with the default equals true
for me. And with the default equals true flag, it is going to use this account to
flag, it is going to use this account to deploy the contracts as the source of
deploy the contracts as the source of the transactions. So for example, if you
the transactions. So for example, if you are spinning up a bunch of contracts
are spinning up a bunch of contracts which have the same admin, you could set
which have the same admin, you could set up this as the admin account and have
up this as the admin account and have the admin deploy all the contracts.
the admin deploy all the contracts. down below you have here also the
down below you have here also the development contracts which specifies
development contracts which specifies which contracts the build command should
which contracts the build command should should build for these
should build for these environments. So here for example it
environments. So here for example it comes out of the bat already
comes out of the bat already preconfigured with the contracts we have
preconfigured with the contracts we have here as examples. So you have the hello
here as examples. So you have the hello world and this inline syntax saying
world and this inline syntax saying that I want to generate the client for
that I want to generate the client for it. So basically the hello world down
it. So basically the hello world down below we have the funible token which
below we have the funible token which also is generating the clients but you
also is generating the clients but you can see down below it has something
can see down below it has something else. You can already set the
else. You can already set the constructor args directly into this
constructor args directly into this format and you can use the accounts that
format and you can use the accounts that are specified on top to be used
are specified on top to be used parameters as arguments. So here it's
parameters as arguments. So here it's already invoking the constructor
already invoking the constructor arguments sorry the constructor function
arguments sorry the constructor function for my funible token setting the owner
for my funible token setting the owner as the MI account and an initial supply
as the MI account and an initial supply and the same thing for the NFT contract
and the same thing for the NFT contract as well. It's set in the owner and you
as well. It's set in the owner and you can also play around with these because
can also play around with these because you can add post initialization
you can add post initialization commands. So you can have for example
commands. So you can have for example this after deploy and you can chain new
this after deploy and you can chain new commands after everything is deployed if
commands after everything is deployed if you want to run a specific
you want to run a specific configuration. So let's say that after
configuration. So let's say that after deploying everything and initializing
deploying everything and initializing the contract you already want out of the
the contract you already want out of the bat to mint some units to send to some
bat to mint some units to send to some accounts to send around some tokens. So
accounts to send around some tokens. So you can do that very easily. So you see
you can do that very easily. So you see a lot of stuff ran here. Actually I
a lot of stuff ran here. Actually I ended up jumping a few steps. So we
ended up jumping a few steps. So we just have the the the contracts and the
just have the the the contracts and the packages and you can see those were
packages and you can see those were generated based on the contracts we have
generated based on the contracts we have specified here. So all of the TypeScript
specified here. So all of the TypeScript packages and this also filled in the
packages and this also filled in the contracts for my front end. So we can
contracts for my front end. So we can start playing with this front end. All
start playing with this front end. All right. So let's let's get back to
right. So let's let's get back to repository. I just initialized this
repository. I just initialized this project. What are the steps that I need
project. What are the steps that I need to do as a fresh project? So we just
to do as a fresh project? So we just copied the MV. Now what we need to do,
copied the MV. Now what we need to do, we need to install the dependencies
we need to install the dependencies because we have a bunch of of
because we have a bunch of of dependencies that we are going to need
dependencies that we are going to need for example to run the concurrency and
for example to run the concurrency and so on. So npmi just run the
so on. So npmi just run the installation. Wait a little bit.
installation. Wait a little bit. Let's just close this other one for a
Let's just close this other one for a second. Okay, everything's installed.
second. Okay, everything's installed. What is the next step? npm rundev. So as
What is the next step? npm rundev. So as you run npm rundev, you see a lot of
you run npm rundev, you see a lot of things going on here. And this is where
things going on here. And this is where I think the magic lies. So, and yeah,
I think the magic lies. So, and yeah, run that. And a lot of stuff is running.
run that. And a lot of stuff is running. I'll just go back and show you as it's
I'll just go back and show you as it's scrolling down. So, you see that out of
scrolling down. So, you see that out of the bat, it starts concurrently two
the bat, it starts concurrently two commands. It starts stellar scaffold
commands. It starts stellar scaffold watch with the build client flag and
watch with the build client flag and also vit. So, these go two are running
also vit. So, these go two are running in separate process. You can see right
in separate process. You can see right away that vit's running here on number
away that vit's running here on number one and on number zero. You can see the
one and on number zero. You can see the whole building the building
whole building the building commands that I that I showed before. So
commands that I that I showed before. So I'll go ahead and click here to open the
I'll go ahead and click here to open the front end. It's already there. And let
front end. It's already there. And let me just see if it finished building
me just see if it finished building everything we had already built. So it's
everything we had already built. So it's basically just repeated everything. But
basically just repeated everything. But there we go. We have our front end. All
there we go. We have our front end. All right. It's a very simple one. it
right. It's a very simple one. it starts with some instructions telling
starts with some instructions telling you what you can do and how you can do.
you what you can do and how you can do. But let me just break it down what
But let me just break it down what you're seeing here in your interface.
you're seeing here in your interface. back. first thing you notice it came
back. first thing you notice it came automatically connected to my account.
automatically connected to my account. Why is that FIFO? Well, that's mainly
Why is that FIFO? Well, that's mainly because I have been using this already
because I have been using this already and we we we have some account
and we we we have some account management logic here that stores
management logic here that stores locally in the local storage the account
locally in the local storage the account that is last connected. So once you come
that is last connected. So once you come back it's going to identify it has been
back it's going to identify it has been connected and just reused that one. But
connected and just reused that one. But I can just come on top here and switch
I can just come on top here and switch accounts like or I can come here click
accounts like or I can come here click on something. There you go. Click and
on something. There you go. Click and disconnect if you want to see what is
disconnect if you want to see what is the the fresh start for the first time
the the fresh start for the first time you access. what is important to note
you access. what is important to note here here I'm using freighter and if
here here I'm using freighter and if you're using freighter you should set it
you're using freighter you should set it to a custom network because I'm using
to a custom network because I'm using the local one. So if you never done that
the local one. So if you never done that in the past you go to settings navigate
in the past you go to settings navigate to network and you can set here a custom
to network and you can set here a custom network. If you're running on test net
network. If you're running on test net or mainet you're good to go because you
or mainet you're good to go because you can simply select the networks that
can simply select the networks that you're running. But in case of a custom
you're running. But in case of a custom one, you just need to input the same
one, you just need to input the same parameters we have in the end. So what
parameters we have in the end. So what is your RPC URL? What is your horizon
is your RPC URL? What is your horizon URL? What is the passphrase and allow
URL? What is the passphrase and allow for HTTP connections? there is
for HTTP connections? there is something on my my my local environment
something on my my my local environment here and I'm still trying to figure out
here and I'm still trying to figure out what is going on. But sometimes it
what is going on. But sometimes it struggles with freighter and it doesn't
struggles with freighter and it doesn't show up the the proper balance. But I
show up the the proper balance. But I see it's something related specifically
see it's something related specifically to this to this environment I'm running.
to this to this environment I'm running. But it's it's going to work. Everything
But it's it's going to work. Everything is fine. I'll be showing to you guys.
is fine. I'll be showing to you guys. So, if I click here on connect, you see
So, if I click here on connect, you see that we're using the Stellar wallet kit.
that we're using the Stellar wallet kit. This is a nice library we have in the
This is a nice library we have in the ecosystem, which basically connects to
ecosystem, which basically connects to several different wallets in the
several different wallets in the ecosystems and it's just one integration
ecosystems and it's just one integration you make and you're good to go. So, here
you make and you're good to go. So, here I have these two wallets installed
I have these two wallets installed here, but it supports way more wallets.
here, but it supports way more wallets. I'll just go with Freder. And wait a
I'll just go with Freder. And wait a second. Did I click it? Oh, something's
second. Did I click it? Oh, something's going on. What happened? Oh, there you
going on. What happened? Oh, there you go. Not sure what happened. I think my
go. Not sure what happened. I think my my my computer is frying because
my my computer is frying because everything just slowed down. Oh my god.
everything just slowed down. Oh my god. I'm not sure what's going on. Let me
I'm not sure what's going on. Let me just double check if it's there's an
just double check if it's there's an issue here. Right is not available. Oh,
issue here. Right is not available. Oh, what is going on? Did my did my plugin
what is going on? Did my did my plugin just just die?
just just die? Oh, what the hell happened here?
Oh, what the hell happened here? Let me just Yeah, I should definitely
Let me just Yeah, I should definitely open the tickets with Fred. Let me just
open the tickets with Fred. Let me just try and
kill everything from scratch. Oh, no. I can't do that. Otherwise, I'll be out of
can't do that. Otherwise, I'll be out of the session. Let me just try it again
the session. Let me just try it again once. , is there a way I can maybe
once. , is there a way I can maybe restart the extension?
restart the extension? , where is Can I just do this and
, where is Can I just do this and bring it back?
bring it back? Let me see.
Oh, there you go. It's popping me for my password. Is this correct? There you
my password. Is this correct? There you go. Okay, I think it's going on now. Not
go. Okay, I think it's going on now. Not sure what's going on. I'll definitely
sure what's going on. I'll definitely open a ticket for for the demo gods
open a ticket for for the demo gods blessing us.
blessing us. Okay, so I connected my freighter
Okay, so I connected my freighter wallet. What you see here, it
wallet. What you see here, it automatically brings the balance and we
automatically brings the balance and we have this small indicator here in the
have this small indicator here in the top which checks what is the
top which checks what is the environment that you have set here in
environment that you have set here in your local environment and it indicates
your local environment and it indicates if you're connected to that or in case
if you're connected to that or in case you're not in case I'm connected to test
you're not in case I'm connected to test net for example in the wallet it's going
net for example in the wallet it's going to to throw a different message and
to to throw a different message and indicator just so you know that you're
indicator just so you know that you're not in the intended environment because
not in the intended environment because we want these front ends to be built for
we want these front ends to be built for a specific environment. So here I'm
a specific environment. So here I'm connected with my FIFO wallet and there
connected with my FIFO wallet and there you go. What can I do FIFO? What can
you go. What can I do FIFO? What can this front end do for me? What can I
this front end do for me? What can I what can I use this for? So the nice
what can I use this for? So the nice thing starts once we click on this
thing starts once we click on this button over at the top. So if you're
button over at the top. So if you're familiar with stellar lab the
familiar with stellar lab the laboratory. You have a functionality
laboratory. You have a functionality there called I think it's called
there called I think it's called contract explorer as well that has the
contract explorer as well that has the invoke contract tab. Basically what we
invoke contract tab. Basically what we did is that we ported a good part of
did is that we ported a good part of that implementation over to here. And a
that implementation over to here. And a big shout out to to to to the team from
big shout out to to to to the team from from Stellar Lab that helped us through
from Stellar Lab that helped us through the process.
the process. And what you're seeing here is that as I
And what you're seeing here is that as I open my front end, it automatically goes
open my front end, it automatically goes through my packages and the contracts I
through my packages and the contracts I have here. They load the clients, they
have here. They load the clients, they load the wasmas, they bring the whole
load the wasmas, they bring the whole spec for the client and show me this
spec for the client and show me this interface which allows me to directly
interface which allows me to directly interact with the contract in my local
interact with the contract in my local environment. So what you're seeing here
environment. So what you're seeing here are the three contracts I have here. I
are the three contracts I have here. I can simply click and switch which
can simply click and switch which contract I'm interact with and I can
contract I'm interact with and I can start invoking transaction invoking
start invoking transaction invoking functions from here. So I'll just go and
functions from here. So I'll just go and and show some examples. Let's go through
and show some examples. Let's go through the hello world. And if we check the
the hello world. And if we check the hello world contract, basically what it
hello world contract, basically what it does is that it has this hello function
does is that it has this hello function which receives an argument for two and
which receives an argument for two and say hello hello to the two arguments.
say hello hello to the two arguments. So I'll go ahead and just say fo and
So I'll go ahead and just say fo and since I have my account connected I can
since I have my account connected I can both simulate or submit. I'll break
both simulate or submit. I'll break those into details. So I'll start just
those into details. So I'll start just with simulate. If I click simulate it's
with simulate. If I click simulate it's basically running the simulation of the
basically running the simulation of the transaction. And you see some stuff
transaction. And you see some stuff already changed. So okay, what changed
already changed. So okay, what changed here? First thing is it is using my
here? First thing is it is using my account that is connected here as the
account that is connected here as the source account of the transaction and is
source account of the transaction and is simulating an invocation with the
simulating an invocation with the parameters that I'm putting here. you
parameters that I'm putting here. you can see on top that it it showed this
can see on top that it it showed this flag to indicate it is a read
flag to indicate it is a read invocation. So that means that if I go
invocation. So that means that if I go ahead and submit this invocation to to
ahead and submit this invocation to to the network and it is processed, there's
the network and it is processed, there's no change in state. We're not changing
no change in state. We're not changing any state of the contract. So there's no
any state of the contract. So there's no real reason to actually submit and pay
real reason to actually submit and pay for the fees. If we just want to fetch
for the fees. If we just want to fetch some value or see some result, we can
some value or see some result, we can just simulate and see the result which
just simulate and see the result which is what we have down below. Here we have
is what we have down below. Here we have the response and the result of the
the response and the result of the simulation. So it is a successful one
simulation. So it is a successful one and you can click here on show details
and you can click here on show details and you expand the whole view and you
and you expand the whole view and you have the entire response. So if you
have the entire response. So if you scroll down if you're familiar with
scroll down if you're familiar with this, you see that we have these results
this, you see that we have these results object and here we can see the the
object and here we can see the the return value. So it's saying hello FIFO
return value. So it's saying hello FIFO with the parameter that I I use. So if I
with the parameter that I I use. So if I say something different like hello John
say something different like hello John I'll simulate again. Show the details.
I'll simulate again. Show the details. Go down below and there you go. Hello
Go down below and there you go. Hello John. Awesome. What else can you do?
John. Awesome. What else can you do? let's try a different thing. let's
let's try a different thing. let's for example let's switch here and
for example let's switch here and make a new function and let's make some
make a new function and let's make some changes. Let's store a value. So, I
changes. Let's store a value. So, I think things start to get interesting as
think things start to get interesting as you start playing with your contracts
you start playing with your contracts and and and change things around. So,
and and and change things around. So, I'll just store let's say what can we
I'll just store let's say what can we send here? Let's send an address. So,
send here? Let's send an address. So, let's send an address
let's send an address and it's address we don't return
and it's address we don't return anything and we'll just store these in
anything and we'll just store these in the in the storage. So just go ahead. M
the in the storage. So just go ahead. M do storage. Oh, there you go. Copilot.
do storage. Oh, there you go. Copilot. Let me just double check. Set. No, this
Let me just double check. Set. No, this is wrong. This is wrong. Damn it.
is wrong. This is wrong. Damn it. Copilot. So storage instance. Let's use
Copilot. So storage instance. Let's use instance for now. Is I have cold hands.
instance for now. Is I have cold hands. instance set. Okay. let's use a
instance set. Okay. let's use a simple key. So single short. I think I
simple key. So single short. I think I might have to import this single short.
might have to import this single short. Let's just call my key for now. And the
Let's just call my key for now. And the value will be the address that we're
value will be the address that we're sending.
sending. Okay, let me just save. Let's see. Where
Okay, let me just save. Let's see. Where am I? Oh, this should be There you
am I? Oh, this should be There you go. Let me just save it again. I think
go. Let me just save it again. I think this is good to go. Let's wait a little
this is good to go. Let's wait a little bit. You see that as soon as I'm saving
bit. You see that as soon as I'm saving everything is running again. So, it's
everything is running again. So, it's watching for changes in real time. And
watching for changes in real time. And as it identifies that I changed the the
as it identifies that I changed the the the the contract and it builds and it
the the contract and it builds and it notices that was different. Then it runs
notices that was different. Then it runs the whole routine. So it redeploys,
the whole routine. So it redeploys, reinitializes. And this is very very
reinitializes. And this is very very powerful because it means that as I'm
powerful because it means that as I'm making changes, it's identifying when
making changes, it's identifying when it's relevant and it redeploys. It
it's relevant and it redeploys. It regenerates everything. And if you paid
regenerates everything. And if you paid attention, you should have seen that the
attention, you should have seen that the front end already updated here on the
front end already updated here on the side. So I already have the starv
side. So I already have the starv showing up in here. So that's really
showing up in here. So that's really neat because it means that as I'm making
neat because it means that as I'm making changes, I can already invoke from the
changes, I can already invoke from the front end. So the star val here allow me
front end. So the star val here allow me to send an address. So I'll just copy my
to send an address. So I'll just copy my on address from here. We should
on address from here. We should definitely add the copy button here. So
definitely add the copy button here. So I'll just paste it here. I'll simulate.
I'll just paste it here. I'll simulate. I see that I can send it. I can submit
I see that I can send it. I can submit this. But if you notice here on top now,
this. But if you notice here on top now, the badge is slightly different. Let me
the badge is slightly different. Let me close this. You see now it indicates
close this. You see now it indicates it's a right invocation. So this means
it's a right invocation. So this means that based on this simulation if I
that based on this simulation if I submit this I'll be changing some
submit this I'll be changing some value and storing some value in the
value and storing some value in the contract. So I'll go ahead I'll click in
contract. So I'll go ahead I'll click in submit and it's popping me up to sign.
submit and it's popping me up to sign. this is just because of the the issue
this is just because of the the issue I mentioned here in my environment. It
I mentioned here in my environment. It sometimes don't know I have balance but
sometimes don't know I have balance but there you go it was executed and here it
there you go it was executed and here it is. This is this oh damn it one password
is. This is this oh damn it one password it's going to be popping up. So what
it's going to be popping up. So what you're seeing here is the result of the
you're seeing here is the result of the submission and this is is slightly
submission and this is is slightly different. So it has the same compact
different. So it has the same compact version but I can click on details and I
version but I can click on details and I can expand. Oh should I just close this?
can expand. Oh should I just close this? Can I just Yeah, let me just finish it.
Can I just Yeah, let me just finish it. There you go. One password. So what
There you go. One password. So what you're seeing here as the the summary
you're seeing here as the the summary you have the hash of the transaction
you have the hash of the transaction have the ledger number for when it was
have the ledger number for when it was processed. you have the transaction
processed. you have the transaction envelope in XDR, but you can also click
envelope in XDR, but you can also click here and quickly switch to JSON and view
here and quickly switch to JSON and view the the JSON version of this object.
the the JSON version of this object. The same thing for the result. You can
The same thing for the result. You can convert it to JSON and so on. So, this
convert it to JSON and so on. So, this is really nice. Okay. Oh, did it just
is really nice. Okay. Oh, did it just reopen? That's awful. Okay. Oh, it's
reopen? That's awful. Okay. Oh, it's because of this one. Let me just how
because of this one. Let me just how can I can I just disable it? Let me just
can I can I just disable it? Let me just go to the extensions real quick and
go to the extensions real quick and disable this guy so it doesn't pop up on
disable this guy so it doesn't pop up on our face. Okay, I was talking about the
our face. Okay, I was talking about the submission. So, I just submitted made a
submission. So, I just submitted made a change. What else is important to
change. What else is important to highlight here as you're playing with
highlight here as you're playing with these contracts and and you might have
these contracts and and you might have noticed already all of the functions are
noticed already all of the functions are loaded here with their specific
loaded here with their specific arguments and the specific types that
arguments and the specific types that these arguments are in. So for example,
these arguments are in. So for example, if you're looking here to the hello, it
if you're looking here to the hello, it expects an SC string. So it's only
expects an SC string. So it's only accepting strings. So as I'm typing
accepting strings. So as I'm typing here, it's validating the the the input
here, it's validating the the the input that I'm providing. So for example, here
that I'm providing. So for example, here it expects an address for the store. If
it expects an address for the store. If I put anything else other than an
I put anything else other than an address,
address, you'll see that it's validating and
you'll see that it's validating and telling me, hey, this is not a public
telling me, hey, this is not a public key or a contract ID. So it needs to be
key or a contract ID. So it needs to be a valid address. And you should see this
a valid address. And you should see this for all of your functions, all of the
for all of your functions, all of the the known types. So if you go here over
the known types. So if you go here over the funible token for example, you see
the funible token for example, you see we have all of these types indicated
we have all of these types indicated here along with the fields. So we have
here along with the fields. So we have here I 128 and so on. And for functions
here I 128 and so on. And for functions that don't have like arguments don't
that don't have like arguments don't expect arguments you just see this
expect arguments you just see this compact version. So you can just check
compact version. So you can just check and simulate like hey is this paused?
and simulate like hey is this paused? yes it's not paused returns false.
yes it's not paused returns false. Awesome. This is really useful.
Awesome. This is really useful. Okay what else? What what else can we
Okay what else? What what else can we see here? Let me take a step back and
see here? Let me take a step back and see what I took notes. See if I'm not
see what I took notes. See if I'm not forgetting anything. Oh, yes. As you're
forgetting anything. Oh, yes. As you're seeing here on top, we have the name of
seeing here on top, we have the name of the contract and the contract ID. You
the contract and the contract ID. You can just copy it if you're playing
can just copy it if you're playing around making direct invocations in the
around making direct invocations in the in the CLI, but you can also click here
in the CLI, but you can also click here on show details. And that's very
on show details. And that's very interesting. So, what you're seeing here
interesting. So, what you're seeing here is the additional data about this
is the additional data about this contract. So here you have the contract
contract. So here you have the contract was hash if you want to play with the
was hash if you want to play with the deployed was version. you also have
deployed was version. you also have the contract metadata and if you're not
the contract metadata and if you're not familiar with with what is the contract
familiar with with what is the contract metadata you can just come here and
metadata you can just come here and click to see the documentation and read
click to see the documentation and read a little bit more but in essence these
a little bit more but in essence these are some some some some pieces of data
are some some some some pieces of data that are automatically embedded into the
that are automatically embedded into the was that included into the the was
was that included into the the was during the compilation but you can also
during the compilation but you can also add your own custom metadata depending
add your own custom metadata depending on what you want to send to to the to
on what you want to send to to the to the to the deployed version of the
the to the deployed version of the contract. So basically what we're doing
contract. So basically what we're doing here is that in this front end once we
here is that in this front end once we are going through the the our clients
are going through the the our clients and identifying that we have clients for
and identifying that we have clients for these contracts we are also getting
these contracts we are also getting their wasmas getting the was hash
their wasmas getting the was hash getting the wasmas and decoding the
getting the wasmas and decoding the was to extract this metadata
was to extract this metadata automatically. So if you connect for
automatically. So if you connect for example this to contract deploying test
example this to contract deploying test net this is also going to work and pull
net this is also going to work and pull all of the metadata related to that
all of the metadata related to that contract. Let's just go ahead and make
contract. Let's just go ahead and make some changes and add some metadata to
some changes and add some metadata to this contract. So let's go into this
this contract. So let's go into this hello world contract. It has just the
hello world contract. It has just the basic metadata here indicating the
basic metadata here indicating the version, the SDK version, the protocol
version, the SDK version, the protocol version and release. So I'll just go
version and release. So I'll just go ahead and there are a few ways in which
ahead and there are a few ways in which you can do this. One that is very simple
you can do this. One that is very simple is directly through the tommo file. So
is directly through the tommo file. So I'll just copy here and go to the tommo
I'll just copy here and go to the tommo file and I'll add this section here for
file and I'll add this section here for package metadata.stellar.
package metadata.stellar. And we have some some some some
And we have some some some some different properties here basically
different properties here basically indicating this is a contract. I have
indicating this is a contract. I have some custom ones like I have my custom
some custom ones like I have my custom string fu my custom boot through. We
string fu my custom boot through. We have authors we have the repository the
have authors we have the repository the homepage and all of these are going to
homepage and all of these are going to be baked into the contract during the
be baked into the contract during the build. You can also beyond this you can
build. You can also beyond this you can also come here and this is something you
also come here and this is something you can do in your own contracts which is to
can do in your own contracts which is to use the macro contract contract
use the macro contract contract matter there you go let me just make
matter there you go let me just make sure it's imported and for contract
sure it's imported and for contract matter all you need to do is to form a
matter all you need to do is to form a key which I'll just say my
key which I'll just say my my key that's more than enough and a
my key that's more than enough and a value so for the value I'll just call
value so for the value I'll just call I'll just say fifu
I'll just say fifu oh yeah there we go. Let me just save
oh yeah there we go. Let me just save it will also rerun everything. So let's
it will also rerun everything. So let's just wait a little bit and as it's doing
just wait a little bit and as it's doing basically everything is going to be
basically everything is going to be included into the was during the
included into the was during the compilation and once we load it in the
compilation and once we load it in the front end we are going to decode from
front end we are going to decode from the wasp and and and present it show in
the wasp and and and present it show in the front end. So I think everything has
the front end. So I think everything has run here. Let me just go and there you
run here. Let me just go and there you go. You see we have a bunch of new stuff
go. You see we have a bunch of new stuff popping up now. So all the keys that I
popping up now. So all the keys that I have included through the tommo plus the
have included through the tommo plus the key I included here. So let me just see
key I included here. So let me just see my key foil here on top is of type meta
my key foil here on top is of type meta entry. We have the other traditional
entry. We have the other traditional ones. We have the outs that came from
ones. We have the outs that came from the tommo. We have contract true the
the tommo. We have contract true the home domain and so on. So that's very
home domain and so on. So that's very powerful and if you want to reuse this
powerful and if you want to reuse this in your project you can just grab these
in your project you can just grab these components and reusing the front end
components and reusing the front end app. And in the same way way something
app. And in the same way way something that we we were conscious about here is
that we we were conscious about here is that all of this contract explorer
that all of this contract explorer capability and and functionality is not
capability and and functionality is not something that you want to ship to your
something that you want to ship to your production environment for example. So
production environment for example. So everything that you see related to this
everything that you see related to this page is tightly organized within the
page is tightly organized within the debug directory. So you can easily just
debug directory. So you can easily just delete this this debug directory and
delete this this debug directory and extract everything and you'll be have a
extract everything and you'll be have a clean project. And also if you want to
clean project. And also if you want to just reuse some bits, you can just go
just reuse some bits, you can just go select the components and reuse those in
select the components and reuse those in your project. So moving forward, okay,
your project. So moving forward, okay, we made some changes. I updated the
we made some changes. I updated the metadata. What else can we do? So you
metadata. What else can we do? So you remember I was telling you about the
remember I was telling you about the environments and let me just go ahead
environments and let me just go ahead here and find the file environments.
here and find the file environments. which is the file that allows us to make
which is the file that allows us to make some configuration about the
some configuration about the environment we're working on. So I'll
environment we're working on. So I'll just go ahead here and have a look at
just go ahead here and have a look at the NFT one. And for the NFT one, we see
the NFT one. And for the NFT one, we see that all it has said is we have we want
that all it has said is we have we want to we want to build clients for this
to we want to build clients for this contract and we also are constructing
contract and we also are constructing this with me the MI account as the
this with me the MI account as the owner. So what if we also wanna let's
owner. So what if we also wanna let's say men some some units of it. So let me
say men some some units of it. So let me go ahead and grab this which is the
go ahead and grab this which is the example we have here and I basically am
example we have here and I basically am going to add a after deploy and here we
going to add a after deploy and here we can just chain different commands we
can just chain different commands we want to run after the deploy. So here in
want to run after the deploy. So here in this example I'll just going go around
this example I'll just going go around and but let me see what is the actual
and but let me see what is the actual syntax for this contract. NFT
syntax for this contract. NFT innumerable
innumerable contract and the constructor. Okay,
contract and the constructor. Okay, so it's a nouner and it's an address. So
so it's a nouner and it's an address. So that's where sorry not the constructor,
that's where sorry not the constructor, the mint. So it's two and an address.
the mint. So it's two and an address. There we go. Let me go to the
There we go. Let me go to the environments. So mint two and then an
environments. So mint two and then an address. I'll just delete this. I just
address. I'll just delete this. I just give the name of the the address and
give the name of the the address and there you go. It should be able as I
there you go. It should be able as I make new deployments, it should be able
make new deployments, it should be able to do it. Now, even though it's running,
to do it. Now, even though it's running, I didn't change anything in the
I didn't change anything in the contract. So, it's not going to identify
contract. So, it's not going to identify changes in the was. So, it's not going
changes in the was. So, it's not going to deploy a new was for me. So, I'll
to deploy a new was for me. So, I'll just go ahead and make a change to this
just go ahead and make a change to this contract. So, one thing that we can take
contract. So, one thing that we can take advantage of this update and I already
advantage of this update and I already highlighted that we can also add rest
highlighted that we can also add rest docs here as comments. So for example we
docs here as comments. So for example we can say that this no it doesn't
can say that this no it doesn't returns the owner the contract no
returns the owner the contract no copilot this is a mint a new token to
copilot this is a mint a new token to specified address color must be and so
specified address color must be and so on okay this is good enough let me just
on okay this is good enough let me just leave these two lines so once we have
leave these two lines so once we have these docs on top of the functions
these docs on top of the functions and we save these are going to be
and we save these are going to be included in the w and in the spec of the
included in the w and in the spec of the contract. So when we are loading the
contract. So when we are loading the front end, we are going to identify this
front end, we are going to identify this and show those alongside with the
and show those alongside with the functions. So let's just wait a second.
functions. So let's just wait a second. It's running everything. You should be
It's running everything. You should be seeing this sometimes blinking a little
seeing this sometimes blinking a little bit. This means that there's a lot of
bit. This means that there's a lot of stuff going on and the the vit is
stuff going on and the the vit is watching for these changes and just
watching for these changes and just updating everything. So running. I'll
updating everything. So running. I'll just for let me just double check.
just for let me just double check. I think everything executed. Let me just
I think everything executed. Let me just have a look. it's the enumerable.
have a look. it's the enumerable. Let me just see if Oh yeah, got to have
Let me just see if Oh yeah, got to have a look why it didn't just up there
a look why it didn't just up there automatically. But there it is. I put
automatically. But there it is. I put it into into lines. This is very small.
it into into lines. This is very small. It should expand a little bit further.
It should expand a little bit further. So a lot of stuff to take notes as
So a lot of stuff to take notes as improvements, but basically it brings
improvements, but basically it brings the the rust doc here. We have some
the the rust doc here. We have some indications and it's going to always
indications and it's going to always show up with the the functions that that
show up with the the functions that that they are attached to. So, okay, I added
they are attached to. So, okay, I added the step to mint and and and already
the step to mint and and and already send that to the address which is what
send that to the address which is what is the name of the address? Me. So, let
is the name of the address? Me. So, let me go ahead and get this address. What
me go ahead and get this address. What is the key? So, stellar keys public
is the key? So, stellar keys public key me. No, isn't that Oh, I added a a K
key me. No, isn't that Oh, I added a a K and again a typo. Oh, yeah, but it
and again a typo. Oh, yeah, but it worked. So, this is the MI account. So
worked. So, this is the MI account. So let me check if it has a balance.
let me check if it has a balance. Simulate. There you go. We see read
Simulate. There you go. We see read successful. Let me check the balance.
successful. Let me check the balance. And it has. Here it is. Return value. It
And it has. Here it is. Return value. It has. It has a balance of one one NFT. So
has. It has a balance of one one NFT. So if I check I think we have another
if I check I think we have another function here owner off and the token
function here owner off and the token ID. So we know that this is the
ID. So we know that this is the sequential token. So the token number
sequential token. So the token number zero will be the first one. Yes, I can
zero will be the first one. Yes, I can simulate and see that the owner
simulate and see that the owner is the address of my admin. Some other
is the address of my admin. Some other stuff you could be doing and it's very
stuff you could be doing and it's very helpful here. So, I use this key, but
helpful here. So, I use this key, but sometimes I don't have those in my my
sometimes I don't have those in my my wallets. So, you can use stellar keys to
wallets. So, you can use stellar keys to also grab the private keys and import
also grab the private keys and import in your wallets if you want to run some
in your wallets if you want to run some functions for example from the admin
functions for example from the admin perspective. So I'll go with stellar
perspective. So I'll go with stellar keys secret if I'm not mistaken me.
keys secret if I'm not mistaken me. There you go. That's the secret of the
There you go. That's the secret of the MI account. So I'll just go ahead and
MI account. So I'll just go ahead and freighter.
freighter. And for freighter we have here you click
And for freighter we have here you click on this icon on top. You see your
on this icon on top. You see your accounts and you can easily click on
accounts and you can easily click on import secret key. I just paste it. And
import secret key. I just paste it. And remember if you're seeing the secret key
remember if you're seeing the secret key publicly in this recording you should be
publicly in this recording you should be using this for real because this has
using this for real because this has been exposed. Let me just put my
been exposed. Let me just put my password. And don't forget to click on
password. And don't forget to click on this checkbox and I'll just import it.
this checkbox and I'll just import it. There you go. AM2 I. Yes, that's
There you go. AM2 I. Yes, that's correct. That's the account. All right.
correct. That's the account. All right. So, I'm connected with my admin now. So,
So, I'm connected with my admin now. So, if I want to play around and I want to
if I want to play around and I want to make transactions or means from the
make transactions or means from the perspective of the owner, I can do that.
perspective of the owner, I can do that. So, I just go ahead for example, grab
So, I just go ahead for example, grab the address of a different one which is
the address of a different one which is my FIFO account. I'll just come here,
my FIFO account. I'll just come here, copy, and again switch to my admin,
copy, and again switch to my admin, which is this one. And let me mint a
which is this one. And let me mint a token to my FIFO account. There we go.
token to my FIFO account. There we go. And one important thing here, you notice
And one important thing here, you notice that right away I can click on submit.
that right away I can click on submit. You don't have to manually simulate. You
You don't have to manually simulate. You can always simulate to see beforehand
can always simulate to see beforehand what will be the the outcome if it is
what will be the the outcome if it is likely to fail or not. But you can just
likely to fail or not. But you can just come here and directly click on submit
come here and directly click on submit and it's going to run the whole
and it's going to run the whole workflow. So it's going to configure the
workflow. So it's going to configure the transaction, simulate it, check the
transaction, simulate it, check the result, prepare the transaction, sign,
result, prepare the transaction, sign, and then submit. So I will just click on
and then submit. So I will just click on submit. You'll be prompted to to to
submit. You'll be prompted to to to reveal and sign, approve and continue.
reveal and sign, approve and continue. Yes, that's correct. Sign transaction.
Yes, that's correct. Sign transaction. And there you go. It was successfully
And there you go. It was successfully executed. So, if I grab my FIFO account
executed. So, if I grab my FIFO account here now and check for the balance
here now and check for the balance and simulate, I should be able to see
and simulate, I should be able to see that it holds a token. Oops. Oops. Too
that it holds a token. Oops. Oops. Too much scroll. There you go. Return value
much scroll. There you go. Return value number one. It means it's hold holding
number one. It means it's hold holding one NFD. And if I check for the owner of
one NFD. And if I check for the owner of the number one,
the number one, let me see. Show details. Who is owning
let me see. Show details. Who is owning the NFT number one? There you go. The
the NFT number one? There you go. The FIFA account. Awesome. Awesome. Okay,
FIFA account. Awesome. Awesome. Okay, Fifo, but you're just showing the
Fifo, but you're just showing the examples we have here. You just made
examples we have here. You just made small tweaks. What else can we do? What
small tweaks. What else can we do? What else is in there for us? So, another
else is in there for us? So, another nice thing that I want to show here
nice thing that I want to show here today is the generate. So, if you go to
today is the generate. So, if you go to let me just close let me stop this for a
let me just close let me stop this for a while and close this one so you guys can
while and close this one so you guys can see this. , let me just go to stellar
see this. , let me just go to stellar scaffold
scaffold again. Show the commands. These are the
again. Show the commands. These are the commands we have. I want to show you the
commands we have. I want to show you the generate one. So the generate one is to
generate one. So the generate one is to generate new contracts in this
generate new contracts in this repository. So let me go ahead stellar
repository. So let me go ahead stellar scaffold generate and let me see the
scaffold generate and let me see the options we have here. So basically
options we have here. So basically sorry I I can generate contracts. So
sorry I I can generate contracts. So generate contract h and there you go. So
generate contract h and there you go. So the options I have here I can clone one
the options I have here I can clone one of the examples existing in the open
of the examples existing in the open zapping repository. And if you're not
zapping repository. And if you're not familiar let me just make sure I have it
familiar let me just make sure I have it here. this is the repository. It's
here. this is the repository. It's managed by open zapling. They have some
managed by open zapling. They have some very nice examples over here that you
very nice examples over here that you can have a look. So basically you can
can have a look. So basically you can choose any one of those and directly
choose any one of those and directly clone into the to the repository. you
clone into the to the repository. you also have the option to list the
also have the option to list the existing ones which will show the list
existing ones which will show the list of the ones in the examples. You can
of the ones in the examples. You can also go to the wizard. So it's going to
also go to the wizard. So it's going to pop up. Let me show you. If you hit
pop up. Let me show you. If you hit contract,
contract, oops,
oops, from wizard,
from wizard, it pops up the wizard from open zap
it pops up the wizard from open zap link. So, this is a really nice wizard
link. So, this is a really nice wizard that allows you to combine different
that allows you to combine different features. So, I want to make a token
features. So, I want to make a token that is mintable and it's burnable and
that is mintable and it's burnable and pausible. So, it adds all of these
pausible. So, it adds all of these characteristics and all the markers and
characteristics and all the markers and you can just grab it and bring to your
you can just grab it and bring to your project. But what I'll be doing here is
project. But what I'll be doing here is basically using the other option which
basically using the other option which is I'll go contract ls. Oh sorry it's a
is I'll go contract ls. Oh sorry it's a ls and here I can see all the available
ls and here I can see all the available contracts in the open z. So I'll go
contracts in the open z. So I'll go ahead and copy one. Let me see. I'll get
ahead and copy one. Let me see. I'll get let's let's use the funible cap if I'm
let's let's use the funible cap if I'm not mistaken. I think that's a good one.
not mistaken. I think that's a good one. Let me just again check it's from. Okay.
Let me just again check it's from. Okay. So I'll use from. So stylish scaffold
So I'll use from. So stylish scaffold generate contract from and I'll add it's
generate contract from and I'll add it's fun how do you write it? Funible cap.
fun how do you write it? Funible cap. Funible
Funible funible
funible cap. Is that correct? I hope so. Yes.
cap. Is that correct? I hope so. Yes. let me see. Yes. We have a new contract
let me see. Yes. We have a new contract here. So if you look here we have the
here. So if you look here we have the contract funible cat. It was it was
contract funible cat. It was it was imported in our repository. So let me go
imported in our repository. So let me go ahead and also add it to our add it to
ahead and also add it to our add it to our configuration. So it can be built
our configuration. So it can be built and then we can generate a client and so
and then we can generate a client and so on. And let me have a look. Does it have
on. And let me have a look. Does it have a constructor? Yes, it has a constructor
a constructor? Yes, it has a constructor and expects a cap interfere. So let's go
and expects a cap interfere. So let's go to our do we have it open? No. Where is
to our do we have it open? No. Where is it? Environments.
it? Environments. I'll go ahead and add a new contract. So
I'll go ahead and add a new contract. So I'll use the same syntax we did for the
I'll use the same syntax we did for the token for the fun token. I'll just
token for the fun token. I'll just copy this. let me put it at the end.
copy this. let me put it at the end. So I'll have a new one. And this one is
So I'll have a new one. And this one is funo
funo kept. It's important that it matches the
kept. It's important that it matches the name. Let me see how it's set in the
name. Let me see how it's set in the tunnel.
tunnel. where is the tunnel? There you go.
where is the tunnel? There you go. Example. So it's fun cap example. Yes.
Example. So it's fun cap example. Yes. But it needs to match the the final
But it needs to match the the final file generated. So it should have the
file generated. So it should have the underscore. So, French ball cap example.
underscore. So, French ball cap example. There we go. Client true. And we also
There we go. Client true. And we also want to
want to invoke the constructor right afterwards,
invoke the constructor right afterwards, but it accepts a cap argument with an
but it accepts a cap argument with an integer. So, I'll just say the cap is
integer. So, I'll just say the cap is 10,000. Just an arbitrary number. And
10,000. Just an arbitrary number. And let's save. Let me see. Oh, sorry. I had
let's save. Let me see. Oh, sorry. I had stopped the command here. So, npm
stopped the command here. So, npm rundev.
rundev. Let's see if it identifies the changes
Let's see if it identifies the changes right away and and runs it.
It's running everything. Let me go back here to see. There we go. But I think it
here to see. There we go. But I think it didn't deploy it yet. Let's wait a
didn't deploy it yet. Let's wait a little bit. Is it running? Let me see
little bit. Is it running? Let me see this teller.
this teller. Hello. And so on. No, I think it's
Hello. And so on. No, I think it's stopped. So, I should have run the
stopped. So, I should have run the command before I updated it. Let's just
command before I updated it. Let's just make a a small change so it detects the
make a a small change so it detects the change. I'll just add some comments
change. I'll just add some comments here. Maybe on this one. Oh, no. It's
here. Maybe on this one. Oh, no. It's still running. Sorry. There you go.
still running. Sorry. There you go. Still running. Still running.
Still running. Still running. Everything updated.
Blinking for a while. Don't worry. This happens sometimes as we are removing and
happens sometimes as we are removing and adding packages. Let me just double
adding packages. Let me just double check if this is because we added a new
check if this is because we added a new package that not was not tracked. I
package that not was not tracked. I know there is an open issue that the
know there is an open issue that the team is working was working today around
team is working was working today around how we are tracking the newly generated
how we are tracking the newly generated packages. So sometimes we add a new
packages. So sometimes we add a new package and it might not identify in the
package and it might not identify in the workspace. So we can so we just run the
workspace. So we can so we just run the npmi here at the root level and it will
npmi here at the root level and it will identify. This is a quick workaround but
identify. This is a quick workaround but I know there they're patching it as we
I know there they're patching it as we are presenting this. And there you go.
are presenting this. And there you go. That was it. it's loading everything.
That was it. it's loading everything. There you go. We see a new one here.
There you go. We see a new one here. Funible cap example we have our token
Funible cap example we have our token it does it have an admin let me just
it does it have an admin let me just double check no it doesn't have an admin
double check no it doesn't have an admin so that means that I can just m with any
so that means that I can just m with any account so let me check the total
account so let me check the total supply before we start invoking this
supply before we start invoking this contract and the total supply is indeed
contract and the total supply is indeed zero so there are no units in existence
zero so there are no units in existence or running around so let's go ahead and
or running around so let's go ahead and mint some so I'll just mint to the to
mint some so I'll just mint to the to our admin or to our main account
our admin or to our main account directly and you open here. Copy.
directly and you open here. Copy. Let's just use this one amount. Let's
Let's just use this one amount. Let's just use a normal amount that's under
just use a normal amount that's under the cap. So, this one should be okay
the cap. So, this one should be okay because it's under the cap.
because it's under the cap. Loading. There we go. Execute it. Submit
Loading. There we go. Execute it. Submit it. If I get this account and check the
it. If I get this account and check the balance, simulate. Show details. And I
balance, simulate. Show details. And I run down here. 5,000. So, the balance is
run down here. 5,000. So, the balance is there. it was minted. So, let's go ahead
there. it was minted. So, let's go ahead and try to mint 50,01.
and try to mint 50,01. And this now shouldn't go ahead. So, if
And this now shouldn't go ahead. So, if I click both simulator submit, it fails
I click both simulator submit, it fails because the simulation fails because we
because the simulation fails because we are hitting the cap. So, we should be
are hitting the cap. So, we should be able to see here the details of the
able to see here the details of the failed simulation and what happened. So
failed simulation and what happened. So as you see we just added a new contract
as you see we just added a new contract started playing around and you see
started playing around and you see things gives us a lot of speed because
things gives us a lot of speed because you can just start invoking everything
you can just start invoking everything from the client and seeing the changes
from the client and seeing the changes right away. So I think this is very
right away. So I think this is very powerful and should be very helpful for
powerful and should be very helpful for new developers coming getting up to
new developers coming getting up to speed and seeing how the implementation
speed and seeing how the implementation is managing all these workflows and you
is managing all these workflows and you should be seeing some improvements
should be seeing some improvements coming soon as we gather feedback and
coming soon as we gather feedback and start adding more functionality to it.
start adding more functionality to it. So, I'll pause for a second and take a
So, I'll pause for a second and take a sip of water just to to lubricate my my
sip of water just to to lubricate my my vocal cords. And Carson, I'm not sure if
vocal cords. And Carson, I'm not sure if we have any questions or if like to open
we have any questions or if like to open up for anyone.
up for anyone. >> I I think we pretty much caught up
>> I I think we pretty much caught up questions, but if anyone has
questions, but if anyone has questions, please feel free to to ask.
questions, please feel free to to ask. I think this this is a really this is
I think this this is a really this is a really great demo that shows how much
a really great demo that shows how much progress you've made on this. I love
progress you've made on this. I love that the tooling is built in. It makes
that the tooling is built in. It makes it super easy to debug and to develop
it super easy to debug and to develop and add on to your smart contracts.
and add on to your smart contracts. you don't need to have a ton of tooling
you don't need to have a ton of tooling set up. it's all built in. It makes
set up. it's all built in. It makes it very very easy. So yeah, I I I
it very very easy. So yeah, I I I downloaded the and ran the the latest
downloaded the and ran the the latest that's at least the public one last
that's at least the public one last night and it was super easy to get up
night and it was super easy to get up and running as as soon as I I figured
and running as as soon as I I figured out that I needed to have my my Docker
out that I needed to have my my Docker running. I didn't have that. It
running. I didn't have that. It was on pause. So after that
was on pause. So after that everything was pretty smooth and and I
everything was pretty smooth and and I and and there was there was a comment
and and there was there was a comment about about Stella Lab you can
about about Stella Lab you can actually connect Stella Lab to quick
actually connect Stella Lab to quick start that works even if you have
start that works even if you have quick start and you have this running on
quick start and you have this running on your local machine you can still use
your local machine you can still use the web-based stellar lab but but I
the web-based stellar lab but but I think most of the functionality that
think most of the functionality that that that I would be interested in you
that that I would be interested in you already exposed those here like the
already exposed those here like the smart contracts, you can invoke them and
smart contracts, you can invoke them and you can see the output. So most of the
you can see the output. So most of the functionality I use in cell lab is is
functionality I use in cell lab is is already included in in this in this
already included in in this in this version. So yeah, amazing amazing job.
version. So yeah, amazing amazing job. >> Awesome. It's great to hear that and I
>> Awesome. It's great to hear that and I invite everyone to play around, test,
invite everyone to play around, test, share the feedback, especially people
share the feedback, especially people participating in the hackathons. Like
participating in the hackathons. Like this is a great starter for the
this is a great starter for the hackathons. They can really get up to
hackathons. They can really get up to speed.
speed. Yeah, I think for hack meridian,
Yeah, I think for hack meridian, we definitely need to do a big push to
we definitely need to do a big push to get people going on this. I we always
get people going on this. I we always see when we do hackathons, we always see
see when we do hackathons, we always see some struggle a little bit setting up
some struggle a little bit setting up their environment, get everything
their environment, get everything installed and sometimes they maybe spend
installed and sometimes they maybe spend an hour getting things up and running
an hour getting things up and running instead of starting to code or to decide
instead of starting to code or to decide what to build. So this is really a fast
what to build. So this is really a fast track to to get started working on
track to to get started working on your project and and start coding.
your project and and start coding. >> Yeah. And and we have some hidden gems
>> Yeah. And and we have some hidden gems that I didn't even touch here because of
that I didn't even touch here because of the time. But if I I I really suggest
the time. But if I I I really suggest you guys have a look. For example, we
you guys have a look. For example, we have some hooks that allow you to
have some hooks that allow you to directly listen for specific events. So
directly listen for specific events. So if you're playing with events and
if you're playing with events and meeting events in your contract, you can
meeting events in your contract, you can already in your front end start
already in your front end start listening for those and reacting
listening for those and reacting automatically. So you could make some
automatically. So you could make some fancy stuff here. I think this could be
fancy stuff here. I think this could be a next step for this explorer to have
a next step for this explorer to have some options to already list and see the
some options to already list and see the events coming up as you're making the
events coming up as you're making the invocations. But this could be very
invocations. But this could be very powerful.
powerful. >> Yeah. Great.
>> Yeah. Great. >> Awesome. Awesome. If you guys find
>> Awesome. Awesome. If you guys find anything or have any any feedback, feel
anything or have any any feedback, feel free to share directly in the repository
free to share directly in the repository or get get in touch with us.
or get get in touch with us. >> Yeah. How is the best way? Let's say I
>> Yeah. How is the best way? Let's say I find a bug or something is not working.
find a bug or something is not working. What is the best way to to to let you
What is the best way to to to let you guys know?
guys know? >> I I encourage everyone to directly open
>> I I encourage everyone to directly open a niche on the repository because we are
a niche on the repository because we are definitely looking there every day. It
definitely looking there every day. It will be the quickest way, but we're also
will be the quickest way, but we're also on Discord. So on the developer Discord,
on Discord. So on the developer Discord, the developer community, we're always
the developer community, we're always there. So feel free to just tag us, me
there. So feel free to just tag us, me or the team. We're always looking there.
or the team. We're always looking there. >> Great.
>> Great. Okay. If there's no other questions,
Okay. If there's no other questions, I would like to thank you so much for
I would like to thank you so much for giving this demo. This was a very
giving this demo. This was a very extensive demo. you really took us far
extensive demo. you really took us far into into the scaffold stellar and it
into into the scaffold stellar and it was really great. so yeah, thank you
was really great. so yeah, thank you so much and I think we will probably do
so much and I think we will probably do another update at a later time but
another update at a later time but until then I I would encourage everyone
until then I I would encourage everyone who builds on Stella to try it out.
who builds on Stella to try it out. It it's really impressive. I I love how
It it's really impressive. I I love how how much is included how much you
how much is included how much you don't need to set up manually and
don't need to set up manually and integrating the tooling and and getting
integrating the tooling and and getting to a point where you start to be
to a point where you start to be productive super fast. I think that's
productive super fast. I think that's that's that's a great experience. so
that's that's a great experience. so so so yeah, go ahead and try it out and
so so yeah, go ahead and try it out and yeah, thank you for for listening in.
yeah, thank you for for listening in. We will be back next Thursday. Thank you
We will be back next Thursday. Thank you everyone.